# GoToSocial Newsletter - September 2022

Hello humans, non-human entities, and others!

Welcome to the inaugural GoToSocial newsletter! We're gonna try writing these once a month. The idea is to keep people up to date on what's been going on at the SuperSeriousBusiness **volcano headquarters**, where we poke and prod at GoToSocial code. Maybe we'll even post the newsletters on time, wouldn't that be something!

## v0.5.0 Sonorous Sloth progress

This month we've been working our butts off on **v0.5.0 Sonorous Sloth**, which is the next Alpha release of GoToSocial in the pipeline. We've already got a first release candidate out for this version, so fingers crossed the final release might already be out by the time you read this!

### Custom Emojis

Thanks to our extremely delicate scientific research in the **emoji lab**, in which we subject emojis to **exciting experiments**, we managed to get custom emojis federating in and out, and displaying properly in status web views.

For now, we've just implemented emojis in the body of statuses, but in future you'll be able to see and use them in content warnings, account bios, and display names, a la Mastodon.

Here's some interesting factoids about GoToSocial emoji support:

- By default we kept the Mastodon emoji size limit of 50kb when uploading emojis, but this can easily be changed in your instance configuration if you want bigger emojis. Just know that Mastodon instances might not see them properly if you do.
- Custom emojis look best when they're simple, bold, and have a 1:1 aspect ratio. Very tall, wide, or detailed emojis tend to look a little weird.
- You can upload emojis as gifs, pngs, or even animated pngs.
- No emojis were harmed in the making of this feature!

### Custom CSS for Profiles and Statuses
